Kolnari Prologue

Copyright © 2024 Robert Willnow of ZingLab LLC, All rights reserved.

Chapter 1:
“He just isn’t much of a fighter, but he’s got a smart mouth. Grena has been teaching him self-defense for years, it’s just not sticking. I think she is disappointed he takes so much after me. I just don’t know what to do with-” Dim lights improved as their engine wound down, his console sprung to life with chirps and pings, “Commander, we have multiple contacts. Active radar, lidar, and laser pings.” 


A dark figure with two piercing white eyes above a jagged bony nose, his lips made of leather receded to reveal two rows of sharp ivory teeth. They drew apart for a guttural call, “Kill the warp field. Go dark.” 


A pair of pale hands danced across the keyboard, small knuckles from a lifetime of academic work and indoor play. “They are scanning all around. No indication they see us.”


“Let’s not wait, Teron. Pick a moon.”


“The closest moon is a hotbed, sir. Recommend we use the gas giant’s magnetosphere to cloak our movements.” 


“Do it,” the commander snapped, “silent running as soon as possible.” Commander Koral tapped feverishly on his console. A dozen browsers and documents were open, a series of extensive dossiers and studies, scanned artifacts, biological analyses, and military assessments. None of them useful while being targeted by unknown vessels. 


The pale academic took a deep breath, his frantic console activity ceasing. “Commander, are these the humans? I thought they were still 500 years from spaceflight.”


“Lieutenant Teron, you know exactly what I know.” Koral’s focus was entirely on the tactical display, watching the unknown ships send radar pings and buzz around, ready for one to turn their way. 


Monitors flashed visualizations of data streams. Media broadcasts, military maneuvers, peer to peer communications? Impossible to know. It only showed as highly organized static. All recorded to be decoded later. 


Teron flipped between screens, “Conventional lightwave propagation, radio signals. Complex encryption. Any of it capable of breaching the heliosphere would have looked like static.” Light from his console washed his face against the dim backdrop of the shuttle. 


They sat side-by-side, each with a console screen not bigger than their two outstretched hands. As a nicety, the wall in front showed their relative position within this solar system, highlighting planets and moons of interest, along with dozens of nearby ships buzzing about.


Alarms blared.


Teron’s hands worked fast. Their inertial dampeners were effective in that they hardly felt any motion as their craft shot forward. “They figured out we hadn’t moved.” 


Koral’s tactical console looked like a dandelion with nearly 20 laser pings from different ships striking them at once. “They saw us with that maneuver.”


…


Soft eyes under a friendly brow ridge were glued to his console’s navigation screen, “Are we sure the last survey was 10 decades ago? We aren’t late?” Dim cabin light added dramatic flair to their situation.


Koral minimized tactical and pulled up the anthropological survey, “We are… two weeks over. Yes, exactly ten decades since the last observation. They had only started replacing animal carriages with engines. How in Kolnar’s green sky did they get this far this quickly?” Koral closed the file to focus on the useless Weapons & Targeting screen.


Teron opened his file on Humans, “A century for us is about 1.5 for them. Maybe…” A bead of sweat ran down his gentle forehead ridges, finding a path straight down to his brow, “I would feel a lot better if we had weapons. Or shields.” 


Koral snorted at the gray weapons tab on his screen, “That wouldn’t be very stealthy. Besides, we were expecting them to be somewhere between automobiles and commercial air travel, maybe radar. I suspect these ships are someone else. Pyrovians or V’Renki maybe.”


Teron flipped back to telemetry, “Not matching either of their designs. These are … inelegant. So far, no two are even remotely alike.” 


Koral sighed, lifting up to leave their consoles, "Let me know when we decode their transmissions. The Valiant will want to know someone set up shop in the human system.” 


A gentle rapping filled the air, slowly overwhelming Teron’s focus. In the cabin’s soft glow he realized it was his foot tapping nervously on the base of his stool. Most of the ship is magnesium, with rubberized steel surfaces for walking and sitting. The ship was vacuum sealed to control thermal signatures, except around the door. Teron could always feel a slight chill coming from it, but that was probably his imagination.


“Fifteen days.” Teron was reviewing the mission to see if he had missed something which would be helpful for their predicament. “ ‘Standard centennial reconnaissance of a pre-space species. Recommend leveraging the shadow of the gas giant.’ Like sneaking up on a baby tarq.”


Priority 1, avoid detection. 
Priority 2, gather the highest-fidelity observations of species advancements possible.


“Their communications volume is staggering. An order of magnitude more than we expected.” Koral had moved to the mid-ship console. It was built into a wall at head height, perfect as he preferred not to sit. He wasn’t doing anything, just standing ‘at ease’ with his hands clasped behind his back. The console bathed his face in light against the comparatively dark ship. His cranial ridges stood proud, a horn just above each eyebrow and a crest up the middle like a row of standing waves breaking on an overturned boat. Teron felt a pang of envy.


Koral’s eyes stayed fixed on his screen, “Do we know how they saw us initially? Visually or sensors?” 


“We warped into the middle of a hive, Commander. Warp field is the most probable, but we dropped our energy signature as soon as we evaded. We might draw their attention when we power up again. We won’t know until we do something.”


Koral drew in a slow, deep breath, blowing it out quickly.
 
Commander Koral changed his telemetry display to focus on a nearby vessel, reading passive sensor data. 


“Should we radio the Valiant?” Teron asked, his inexperience creeping through. 


It was just the two of them on a ship so small they could hardly walk around. Four strides from nose to bathroom. If he were standing at their front consoles, between their bolted-down seats, the wall to his right held bedding and straps in place of real bunks. To his left was a narrow doorway of bare, dark metal. Everything was dark. Beyond the doorway stood Koral at his midship console, just a light screen against dark wall. Cabinets for clothes and supplies beyond that, all the way to their bathroom. A curved ceiling gave the impression they were flying inside a pill. The ship was much larger, of course, but had to contain their thrusters and centrifugal attitude adjusters inside their stealth skin. Everything was accessible in theory through narrow passages and sliding walls. For example, their bunks could flip down to give access to their port flywheel assembly. Flywheels allowed for undetectable adjustments in positioning. Their energy efficiency and low complexity made them his favorite part of the ship because he never had to think about them.


Koral’s demeanor was unmoving, like a moral objector standing before a firing line, “When we know whether these are human vessels, we will radio the Valiant. Presently, we are surrounded by an unknown number of unknown entities in unfamiliar territory. That is not something I want to report." 


…


Two meals passed before the first encryption was cracked. “Media, peer to peer, low security content.” Teron’s findings were worthless for their sticky situation, but a treasure trove of anthropological discovery. 


Koral’s sneer grew, “Absolute chaos. No radio discipline, no chain of command, no respect or dignity. Depravity for the sake of entertainment. Anyone can put anything out there for the whole system to see.” Koral flipped through channels of social media videos, from stories to dancers to something called reaction videos, “Mindless drivel.”


Lieutenant Teron tried to ignore his commander’s trembling hand. “We are sure they are humans? Humans are terribly generic looking. As the file says, the most interesting characteristic is their hair styles.”
“These are definitely the right apes. Same fur patterns, same smooth little baby-skulls, same funny facial expressions. They just happen to be in the wrong place.” Koral’s slow, deep breath steadied him, “Open a channel to the Valiant.”


“Powering on subspace communications now, sir.”


Interior lights flash green, klaxons sound. 


ALERT! 


"Commander, we've got a spike in directed scans towards us," panic gripped Teron’s voice. "Humans can detect our subspace array?" 


"Shut it down. Get us out of here."


“I need a heading, sir.” 


Commander Koral slid onto his stool, flitted across his telemetry display as moons and ships swirled beneath his fingers.


“Sir?”


"New plan," Koral’s hands danced across his display, zooming in on a small satellite, "We make for Callisto. Hide in the crowd and find a quiet spot to put down."


Teron had pulled the ship up above the north pole of Jupiter to reduce the chance of visual confirmation. Radar-absorbing material doesn’t help when you are a silhouette in the sacred sunlight. 


“Teron, go slow.”


Telemetry warned of a possible collision in the spot they had just left, a dozen vessels as colored dots gliding along straight lines toward a mass pileup. A few above, a few below. The humans would surely change course, but the intersection looked less like spilled dry noodles, more like an explosion in reverse. They had been waiting, watching.


“They had been waiting,” Teron’s jaw ached. He had been baring his teeth for their escape, sharp white teeth grit slotted together like a trap. 


Koral took a sharp breath, as if he had been holding his breath, “They know what to look for. They can’t be allowed to figure out our engine signature.”


Teron glanced to his navigation screen, their slow pace, “Ah, we are going slow to keep energy levels low. Clever.” 


Recon6 was a stealth recon boat, tiny among small ships. Barely more than a shuttle inside. Its radar cross-section was supposed to be null, despite its outer hull being so much larger. This is because their engines were internal for better thermal and visual obfuscation. It wasn’t some light corvette with more engines than fuselage. The ship was meant to rely on warp - blink in, blink out. 


Koral studied the human ad hoc investigative assembly swirling Jupiter’s north pole, Teron scouted Callisto for their next hiding spot.


“Ock.” Koral’s obscenity felt deeply out of place. “One is matching our course.” He sat motionless, watching his screen. “Maneuver us to a parallel path then cut engines.” 


“Aye sir.”


“Another caught our scent. We have to get to Callisto cold.”


“Engines are off, Commander. Attitude adjustment and life support remain. We will reach Callisto in 6 hours. They will get there first if they keep burning, and they will pass within 1km of us.” 


“Good work, Teron. Keep working on widening that gap.”


…


Hidden in the middle of a designated parking area on the surface of Callisto just outside a major hub of human activity, the two Kolnari sat in a tense vigil, absorbing the absurdity of their situation. 


Koral leaned against the wall with his eyes closed, his back toward the midship console, “Our warp core was fully shut down. To be primed and ready for warp again will take several days. There is nowhere in the heliosphere several days from human activity.” 


Teron cleared his throat nervously, “Commander, if we cannot check in, and we cannot warp out…” 


Foreboding silence hung heavy in the air. 


Theirs did not seem out of place among a hundred other ships seated neatly on Callisto soil. Some sleek, some hulking. One was whimsical with branches and leaves made of sculpted titanium. Another had the body of a lion and head of a human. Most looked cobbled together as if constrained by resources and built using anything they had. More than a few looked derelict, but one of them had lifted off after their arrival so there was no telling. 


Koral’s eyes were still closed, “If at any point capture of your persons or vessel becomes inevitable, or irrefutable evidence is collected by a pre-warp species of the existence of warp technology, it is your duty to eliminate completely such evidence, without hesitation or delay, by any means possible.” The handbook had many clauses, the Non-Interference Directive was one no one liked.
### 
“Step 1, we find a way to infiltrate their base. Disguises, telepresence robots, anything. Step 2, we identify compatible propulsion hardware then devise a plan of escape without being detected.” Commander Koral gestured firmly to a display listing their immediate objectives. “This will also give us a chance to complete our mission of learning about their technological and cultural development. Step 3, we contact the Valiant to update them on our status. Step 4, we make the interminable slog out of here at impulse to deliver our trove of information. If we make it out we will be given medals.” 


“-When” Teron helpfully corrected.

“Yes, when.”


“What about communications, sir? Shouldn’t we try to send a message to the Valiant?” 


Koral was seated alone at the front consoles, “We use two types of comms: Radio and subspace. They detected when we tried subspace. Radio signals travel at light speed and will take months to reach the ship.” His telemetry display zoomed out far enough to show the entirety of the human Sol system, the Valiant rendezvous location marked in open space twice further from them than the full width of Sol system. “We can look for faster-than-light comms tech to bring back with us, but the Valiant would not be able to receive anything we send.” Koral waited patiently for more questions. It was not a briefing, but not quite a discussion. 


“Could we steal another ship?” Teron regretted the suggestion immediately. He had been pacing the small space, bare feet feeling freedom as his toes scraped against rubber. 


“Our stealth tech is too important for our escape in Step 4. Besides, theft may draw too much attention, and in general, you should never steal from a culture whose penalties you do not know.” This was Teron’s second mission, and their second one together. The last one went exactly to plan. Pop in, scan the natives and snag some leave-behinds, grab a bone from a recent burial, and pop out. Anthropology 101. 


Koral swiveled to watch his bunkmate wiggling bare toes against their shared floor, “Perhaps they have a barter system. We can trade anything not obviously un-human. Raw materials, simple alloys.” 


Teron slid quickly back to his stool, “We have access to their local network, including directories and maps. They group commercial services into a social hub. And look what else I found.” 


“What am I looking at? Is it … “ 


Teron flipped through a few video clips from one of the many social media channels, “They use genetic engineering to survive in space. Reduce oxygen requirements, shorter rest cycles, something about musculature so they don't atrophy in low grav-”


“WHAT am I LOOKING AT?”


“They uh also do cosmetics. Colors, stripes, horns, claws-”


“Say one more word not about the image in front of me and I will dump you out the airlock.” 


“Genitals, sir. This person is very popular on their network media. He has- He has genitals on his ear lobes. Little ones. Their normal genitals are-”


“WHY AM I LOOKING AT THIS!?”


“It's a bad example. Let me just” Teron flipped through several more images of outrageous cosmetic modifications, some too close to give context, many looking distinctly non-human. “This person looks like an Abdorian, see. But they are human.” 


“How? Why? Use small words.”


“Sir, we can get cosmetic modifications and move around freely. Just enough to look like modified humans.”


…


 “Thanks for calling Bob's Bio, Bob speaking. What can I do to you?”

 
###


The story continues on Amazon or Barnes&Noble: Kolnari Prologue by Robert Willnow